# Datastream Diagnostic Toolkit v23.01.1 (2023-01-23) 
by Shane Borden (datastream-diagnostic-toolkit)

Scripts used to collect diagnostic information for the Google Datastream product

Datastream Diagnostic Toolkit is a "free to use" script (Covered by the Apache 2.0 License) 
that collects Diagnostic Information used by the Datastream product from an Oracle Database. If you
have the diagnostics and tuning pack, additional data will be collected to aid in diagnosis of the product.
If the diagnostics and tuning pack is not licensed, that additional data is not queried in order not to invoke
a usage count of the license.  This is controlled by answering in the affirmative that the pack is licensed at the 
invocation of the script.

## Steps

1. Connect to a Host as oracle
2. Transfer and Unzip datastream-diagnostic-toolkit.zip or datastream-diagnostic-toolkit.tar.gz and navigate to datastream-diagnostic-toolkit directory
3. Source in the appropriate database
4. Connect into SQL*Plus as SYS or user with query access to the data dictionary (i.e. DBA),
   then execute the appropriate script for the target system:
   - Oracle: @datastreamOraDiagCollect.sql
5. Script will prompt for a timeframe.  At a minimum, please enter a time 15 minutes before the issue occurred
   until 15 minutes after in the following format:  YYYY-MM-DD HH24:MI  
      *** Note: Longer timeframes may require longer execution time
6. Script will then prompt for the username being used for the Datastream product.
7. If running against an Oracle database, the script will confirm if the Diagnostics or Tuning Pack is licensed. 
   If not respond by entering 'N'.
8. Provide to requestor all files generated by this script on current directory
   (i.e. datastream_diag_output_hostname_database_yyyymmdd_hh24mi.zip)
9.  Return the zipfile to support

## Compatibility and Fixup Scripts
Located within the zipfile are two files that can be used to report fixups for the user and database should they be missing permisisons parameters etc.

* datastream_diag_user_fixup\_[hostname]\_[instance_name]\_[report_date].sql
* datastream_diag_db_fixup\_[hostname]\_[instance_name]\_[report_date].sql

Also contained within the zip file is a comprehensive report detailing object counts as well as objects that may not be supported by Datastream.  Details of that report can be found in the file:

* datastream_diag_comprehensive_db_check\_[hostname]\_[instance_name]\_[report_date].txt

## Limitations

1. The scripts are designed to run via SQLPlus and have not been tested with other tools such as SQLDeveloper.
